# Memo 09 - Chapter 11 and 14 (Know What "Done" Means and Report Your Project State)

Perfection is the enemy of getting things "done" and so lies on the expectations
of both the engineers and the customers.  For the engineers an item is done when
a test has be implemented for the corresponding feature; in contrast, customers
define done when a they can have a feature completed and is ready for release
on next update.

From my own experience of when interning at Intel my team defines done when
tests negative tests are written against features implemented, has pass our sever build,
and has been approved by two other engineers. It is then and only then we may
close our ticket and delete the corresponding branch that was used to develop the feature.

This is in contrast to when I was working in a previous role as a Storage Solution
Architect where my task was to developed test plans for competitive benchmarking
of client Solid-State Drives for use in generating marketing proof points and superlatives.
Our work was done when a particular test plan's results are repeatable, shown
similar results, and is approved by the legal team.

On any given effort of task we can always deliver three, but never all four of
the following: quality, time to market, cost effectiveness, done.

Of my time in the two roles I saw that my manager of the two teams will adjust
the control knobs of our project: schedule, staff, quality, and scope.

The balance of what we can deliver and the resource allocation our manager set
defined our limitations, so we can get things "done".

It was with constant communication with our internal team and customers,
reporting our state of the project, enabled us to avoid a large majority
of traps and blocks, for the were communicated often and early.
