# Matthew Mendoza - Chapter 3 & 4 - Build Teamwork with Interpersonal Practices & Agile Requires Different Project Leadership - Cultivating Psychological Safety in Agile Teams

W37.7 | Sunday, September 18, 2022 | 08:39 PM

Chapters three and four, respectively, highlights work attitude from an
analytic perspective (how a team functions) and from a holistic/relational
perspective (how one fits/functions within a team).

Chapter three really helps me build confidence working with other knowledge
workers, where those with more knowledge and experience are valued, although
having passed both behavioral and technical interviews I felt like what I had
to bring on the team isn’t enough. Later I discovered this is what is referred
to as “imposter syndrome” a collection of feelings of inadequacy that persist
despite evident success.

Although having been able to ramp up on my first internship at Intel, being
able to execute on tickets independently, knowing where to look and who to ask
to get ARs (Action Ready) items accomplished, I felt as if I was a fake, that
I managed to fool the hiring manager and technical interviewers to be hired.

I voiced these concerns to my manager at the time and assured me that I was the
appropriate hire for the position, that what I was able to do and learn in the
time frame was faster than most. My manager became my mentor, my coach, in
encouraging me to push not only my interpersonal skills but also my pursuit of
technical knowledge. His effort and time invested with me allowed me to be
confident to argue points with senior engineers, present my findings with
confidence, and installed into me to practice continual feedback.

My manager exemplified ideal qualities of how leaders serve the team in that
they were self-aware, listen, serve the people who work for them, help others
grow, coach people (not control them), unleash the energy and intelligence of
others, and worked to develop foresight so that they can call the shots and not
react to situations.

During my internship I saw leadership at both the macro and micro level; for
example, our team’s product owner, and create a coherent picture for the
product (the roadmap) and the time period: AKA a miniature CEO.

Making the connection that our team’s product owner is like a miniature CEO is
eye opening; for, they help drive both the vision and direction of our product.
Although our product owner reports to our manager - the manager helps
facilitate the effort and teamwork to the goals of the product owner.
